Unit 1
=======
- Independent -
---------------

A.
cultural - relating to arts or other intellectual activity
overcome  - to conquer or defeat a problem
accomplish - to achieve something
authentic - real

B.
1. What is your favorite movie?
My favorite movie is Mary Poppins. 

2. When did you first see this movie?
I first saw this movie when I was a young child.

3. Why do you like this movie so much?
I like this move because it has great music and a happy ending.

C.
Listen and repeat. Track 1


Practice
--------
A.
1. What book did you read?
The most recent book I read was The Hobbit by J.R. Tolkien

2. Did you enjoy the book? Why or why not?
I did not enjoy the book that much. I think that it was very difficult and slow.

3. What important things did the book teach you?
The book taught me that it is important to be strong and to have good friends.

4. Whould you recommend this book to others? Why? 
I would recommend this book to people. It teaches us very important lessons even though it is a little boring.

B.
Make a list of descriptive words and phrases to describe books with your classmates
Thrilling                 Suspenseful 
Mysterious                Slow
Difficult to understand   Not my type
Clever                    Well-written
A page-turner             Exciting

C.
Which? The movie Shrek taught me a very positive message.
What?  It taught me to be comfortable with who I am.
How?   It showed this message by having beautiful Princess Fiona turn into an ogre at night.
Why?   This message is important because we should be happy with who we are even
       if there are things that we don’t like about ourselves.
D.
Make a list of descriptive words and phrases to describe books with your classmates
Inspirational   Thoughtful
Energizing      Exciting
Optimistic      Caring
Helpful/aiding  Friendly

E.
Read the prompt. Then underline the phrases you could use in your own response.
Describe a movie or book that has had a positive influence on you. Include specific details and examples in your response.
How the move changed you
- made me think in a new way     - made me act a new way
- helped me realize ....         - made me start a new habit
- opened my eyes to ....         - helped me to understand

F.
Track 2

Sample response 1
M: The movie Life is Beautiful had a positive influence on my life.
   The movie is a story about a Jewish man from Italy.
   He and his family are taken from their home during World War II.
   They endure many hardships.
   But, the man never gives up hope.
   He teaches his son to overcome hardships.
   He does this by showing him beauty in the world.
   Because of this movie, I try to see beauty every day in the world.

Life is Beautiful
What happened:
 Story about a specific
 Jewish family in World War II
 Had to endure many hardships
 Never gave up hope

How it influenced me:
 Look for beauty in the world
 Looking for beauty can give you hope

Conclusion: Try to find beauty in the world every day

Sample response 2
W: A book about the musician Mozart had a positive influence on my life.
   The specific book I like is about all that he accomplished at a young age.
   It describes his beautiful and authentic music.
   His music changed people’s lives. 
   I am trying to be just like him.
   I am learning to play the piano and also learning to write music.
   Because of this book, I hope to one day have as great a cultural impact as Mozart did.

Book about Mozart
What happened:
 Talks about music he made
 It was beautiful and authentic
 Changed people’s lives

How it influenced me:
 Learning to play piano
 Learning to write music

Conclusion: Want to have a great cultural impact like Mozart


Test
-----
The movie Rudy had a very positive influence on my life.
It is about a slow, small university student whose dream was to play American football for his university.
Everyone said he was too slow and too small to play, but he overcame this eventually and accomplished his dream.
It taught me that I can accomplish my dreams if I endure hardships and work hard.
I hope to be a writer one day. Just like Rudy, I work hard every day in class to accomplish my dream.

Movie Rudy
What happened:
 Small, slow university student
 Wanted to play American football
 Overcame hardships and accomplished his dream

How it influenced me:
 Teaches me I can do anything
 I must work hard to accomplish my dreams
 Work hard to become a writer

Conclusion: Like Rudy, work hard to accomplish dreams


The book Green Eggs and Ham had a very positive influence on my life.
It is about a boy who tries to get an older man to try green eggs and ham.
The boy endures and eventually the old man tries it and likes green eggs and ham.
It taught me that I must be willing to try new things because I might like them.
I hope that I will always want to try new things.

Book Green Eggs and Ham
What happened:
 Boy wants man to eat green eggs and ham
 Man doesn’t want to try it
 Eventually man eats green eggs and ham

How it influenced me:
 I must be willing to try new things
 I might like it

Conclusion: Like the man, I will try new things and hopefully like them.


- Integrated - 
--------------
A.
inconvenience - the state of being caused bother, trouble, or difficulty

B.
Change of Bus Route
The university bus system will change one bus route. In the past, buses have stopped in front of SaveMart on Preston Road.
However, not enough students use the Preston Road bus route.
The university will no longer run buses to Preston Road.
Students using the Preston Road bus stop should begin using the Davis Boulevard stop a half kilometer to the south of the old Preston Road bus stop.
We are sorry for any inconvenience this may cause students.

1. What will happen?
Buses will not stop at the Preston Road bus stop.

2. What should students do?
Students should begin using the Davis Boulevard stop.

3. What do you think the conversation will be about?
I think the conversation will be about what students think of the bus routes changing.

C.
Listen and repeat. Track 3
W: The announcement says that buses will not stop at the Preston Road bus stop.
   Therefore, students should begin using the Davis Boulevard stop.
   I think the conversation will be about what students think of the bus routes changing.


Practice
--------
A.
Change of Bus Route
The university bus system will change one bus route. In the past, buses have stopped in front of SaveMart on Preston Road.
However, not enough students use the Preston Road bus route.
The university will no longer run buses to Preston Road.
Students using the Preston Road bus stop should begin using the Davis Boulevard stop a half kilometer to the south of the old Preston Road bus stop.
We are sorry for any inconvenience this may cause students.

B.
Track 4
M: Did you hear the school is closing the Preston Road bus stop?
W: Yes. I am not happy about it at all. This bus route change is terrible for me!
M: Why? Do you live near the Preston Road bus stop?
W: No. I live in the apartments near campus, 
   but I use that bus route because I like to shop at SaveMart.
M: Oh. Well, you can still take the bus to Davis Boulevard and walk to SaveMart.
   It’s not that far.
W: It’s not far, but after shopping, 
   I would have to walk back to Davis Boulevard with several heavy bags of groceries!
M: I see.
W: Now it will be a lot more difficult for students to shop at SaveMart.
   We will all have to shop at the more expensive stores near campus. This is terrible!
M: But the university doesn’t have the money to keep that bus route open.
   What can it do? It has no other options.
W: The University should spend less money on its football team and more money on its buses.
   That’s what I think it should do.


Man                              Woman
• The school is closing the       • Not happy about the change
Preston Road bus stop
• Take the bus to Davis Boulevard • Used bus route to shop at SaveMart

• Walk to SaveMart.               • It will be more difficult for students to shop at SaveMart
• The University doesn’t have     • The university should spend less on the football team and more on buses
the money to keep the bus
route open

C.
Read the prompt
The woman and man express their options about the announcement made by
the university bus service. State their opinions and explain the reasons
they give for holding those opinions.

D.
Track 5
W: The woman is not happy about the bus route change. She thinks this change in bus routes is an inconvenience
because now it is more difficult to take the bus to SaveMart to get groceries. She also thinks the bus route
change is an inconvenience because now students will have to shop at the more expensive stores near
campus. She thinks the university should spend less money on the football team and more on the bus system.
The man doesn’t think it is an inconvenience. He thinks the university doesn’t have the money to keep the
bus stop going.

The woman is not happy about the bus route change.
A. It is an inconvenience
  1. to take the bus to SaveMart
  2. to have to shop at the more expensive stores near campus
B. The man
  1. doesn’t think it is an inconvenience
  2. thinks the university doesn’t have money to keep the bus going


Test
--------
Step1 - Read the announcement.
Road Closing
Starting next week, Kirby Road will be closed from University Drive to Main Street.
The city will be working on repairs to Kirby Road for the fall semester.
All students who walk to classes along this route will need to find another way to get to classes.
The large trucks and machines used for road repairs will make walking along Kirby Road dangerous.
Therefore, police will not allow students access to the area while the road is being repaired.

Step2 - Listen to the conversation and take notes.
Track 6
Woman                            Man
• Asks if man knows that the     • Going to make walk to school longer
city is closing Kirby Road
• Will have to leave at least    • Thinks the road needs repair but should be able to walk through area
15 minutes earlier to get to
class on time
• The road had big holes.
They are terrible.
• Thinks they did the right
thing by closing the area

Step3
The man and woman express their opinions of the announcement made about the road closing.
State their opinions and explain the reasons they give for holding those opinions.

Step 4
The man is not happy about the road closure.
A. The man
  1. is going to have to walk farther to school
  2. thinks the road should be repaired but
     should let students walk in area
B. The woman
  1. will need to leave earlier to get to school on time
  2. thinks the road needs repair
  3. thinks it could be great exercise

Step 5
The man is not happy about the road closure
because he is going to have to walk farther to
school. He also thinks the road should be repaired
but students should be allowed to walk through the
area. The woman will need to leave her apartment
earlier to get to school on time. She thinks the road
needs repair but also thinks it could be great
exercise to have to walk to school.


